---
title: "Usage"
---

# Usage

<div id="arguments" markdown="1">

### Parameter explanation

- `--help, -h`
  
  Display not-so-cute help message and exit gracefully.

- `--threads, -t [number]`

  Set up the maximum number of threads ORMAN may use.  ORMAN uses multi-threading to speed up CPLEX smoothing step.

  Beware that CPLEX may require a significant amount of memory to complete, and that large number of threads may result in large memory consumption.

  Default value: **number of available processors **

- `--sam, -s [file]`

  Specify input SAM file here.
  Requirements for SAM file are:
  
  * Header must be present (otherwise ORMAN may behave strange ...)
  * All reads with the same read name have to be clustered together. 

  Or simply: SAM file should be sorted by the read name.
  If not, ORMAN WILL NOT report any error, but the results might (and will) be interesting.

- `--gtf, -g [file]`

  Specify input GTF file here.
  ORMAN supports only GTF files containing ORMAN-specific additional information (namely `partial_ex` field). If you don't have such file, please use the provided ormanGTF script to create one.

</div>

### Some additional information

ORMAN adds `YG` tag to each read. `YG` denotes the gene to which the read was assigned by ORMAN. If ORMAN couldn't handle read (some weird fusion involved, or it is just crappy read), `YG` tag will be assigned to `_`.

Every resolved read will have its `NH` tag set to 1. Also, for every resolved read, `CC`, `CP` and `HI` tags will be removed.

If ORMAN complains about too many crappy reads, please make sure that GTF and SAM chromosome names march. Common cause is the mismatch caused by `chr` prefix (e.g. `1` vs `chr1`).

> **A friendly advice**: ORMAN might use easily >15G memory if the input is quite large SAM file.
